# Prerequisites
- Python 3.9.16
- QLM 1.9.1
- Docker 24.0.5
- Make

# Install
1. Clone this repository
2. Pull Subrepositories (for `search_backends.py`)
```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```
3. Create virtual environment
```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
```
4. Install Python dependencies
```bash
make install
```

# Usage
## Run noisy QAOA benchmarks
**Important:**
Benchmark are executed using the proprietary QLM library.
We refer to [this website](https://atos.net/en/solutions/quantum-learning-machine) for more details.

Raw noisy QAOA benchmark results are generated by `*.bash` in the `results` directory and stored as `results/*.txt` files with the same name as the corrsponding Bash script.
Each benchmark result file can be created with `make results/FILENAME.txt`. Alternatively, you can run all benchmarks using `make results`.


The degree of parallelism used for the benchmarks can be selected with the environment variable `N_THREADS`.
For instance, `N_THREADS=10 make results` runs all benchmarks using 10 threads.
The default value is `N_THREADS=1`.
Be aware that executing all benchmarks takes a very long time.
We ran the benchmarks on a Qaptiva 800 with 192 threads, which took over a week.

## Generate plot data
Plot data, which is generated from the benchmark results, is stored as CSV files in the `csvs/` directory.
The CSV files needed for the plots are already part of the repository.
CSV file `csvs/FILENAME.csv` can be generated with `make csvs/FILENAME.csv`.
Be aware that this automatically generates the benchmark results required for the plot if they do not already exist.
Alternatively, one can create all csvs files with `make csvs`.

## Generate plots
To generate the plots, run `make plots`.
This creates two directories `img-pdf` and `img-tikz` and builds and runs a Docker container, which generates the plots, both as PDF and as Tikz graphics.


# Project structure
## Python scripts
- `compute_circuit_depth.py`: Compute the depth of the time-evolved problem Hamiltonian for all problem instances and store the results in `circuit_depths.json`
- `run_benchmarks.py`: Main script to run the noisy QAOA benchmarks
- `search_backends.py`: Search noise parameters of the Qiskit fake backends
## Other Python files
- `filter_results.py`: Filter benchmark results using a simple query language
- `generate_param_sets.py`: generates multiple parameter sets from a JSON document using Cartesian product
- `parse_params.py`: Specification of benchmark parameters
- `rqaoa.py`: Implementation of Recursive QAOA for QLM
- `transpile_to_sx_rz.py`: Circuit transpilation for QAOA circuits into the IMB-Q native gate set
## Other
- `results/`: Stores benchmark results and Bash scripts to run the respective benchmarks
- `csvs/`: Stores plot data, obtained from the `results/`, as CSV files as well as Python scripts to create these files.
- `r/`: R scripts to generate the plots from the `csv/` files
- `qiskit-terra/`: Qiskit submodule, which is searched by `search_backends.py`